Umnoon Binta Ali
Kapatakkho D702, Sector 18, Uttara, Dhaka-1230
Github
LinkedIn
umnoon.ali@northsouth.edu
+8801627097553
SUMMARY
Innovative and scientifically rigorous recent graduate majoring in Computer Science and Engineering
from North South University. I am a data science enthusiast. I am attentive to new technologies, take on
leadership, and make analytical decisions.
WORK EXPERIENCE
Research Assistance
April 2022 - July 2022
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
North South University
Supervisor: Dr. Nabeel Mohammed
Research Domain: Bangla NLP
PROJECTS
Transfer Learning for Speaker Diarization on Bangla Audio Dataset
CSE499 Graduate Dissertation
In this research, transfer learning was explored for speaker diarization on our own Bangla audio data. the
approach sxperiments with different clustering algorithms and embedding techniques to reduce Diarization
Error Rate, DER for noisy data.
Contrastive Learning for Text-to-Image on Paraphrasing Captions
CSE498 CO-OP Research Project
In this research, I presented a contrastive learning strategy to for enhancing the quality and semantic
consistency of synthetic images by paraphrasing the captions from the CUB dataset.
A Deep Convolutional Neural Network for Bangla Handwritten Numeral Recognition
CSE465 Pattern Recognition and Neural Network
In this research, I studied the most unbiased and augmented Dataset NumtaDB to classify images in
isolated Bangla numerals. I preprocessed the data, created synthetic data augmentation using keras
library and feed the data to the training model in the pipeline stage. Furthermore, I used popular CNN
network ResNet34 to better the performance of the model.
Outbreak Prediction and Visualization: Covid-19
CSE299 Junior Design Project
Researchers and social and behavior change communication specialists at Johns Hopkins University wrote
insights and analyses on how to use the data in partnership with WHO's Global Outbreak Alert and
Response Network (GOARN). I used this data to predict the time of the highest spread of covid-19. The
time-series visualization is done with PowerBI.
SKILLS
Programming
Python, C, C++, Java, PHP, Latex
Frameworks
Keras, PyTorch, Tensorflow, Pandas, Matplotlib, OpenCV, Scikit Learn
Front-end
HTML5, CSS3, Bootstrap, ReactJs
Back-end
NodeJs, MySQL
Visualization Tool
PowerBI
OS
Windows, Linux
DevOps
Git
Platforms
MS Office, Adobe
EDUCATION
2017 - 2021
Bachelor of Science at North South University
(CGPA: 3.6/4.0)
2015 - 2016
Higher School Certificate at Rajuk Uttara Model College
(GPA: 5.0/5.0)
2013 - 2014
Secondary School Certificate at Rajuk Uttara Model College
(GPA: 5.0/5.0)
EXTRA-CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES
2018
Arduino Workshop at NSU ACM Student Chapter
Made obstacle avoiding robot
2017-2019
Computer and Engineering Club at North South University
Junior member
2012-2014
Debating Club at Rajuk Uttara Model College
Participated in the in-house Parliamentary Debating Competition
2014-2015
Played Handball at Rajuk Uttara Model College
Regional Champion of Intra-School Handball Tournament
Music
I sing, play ukulele and have my own YouTube Channel
Art
Acrylic Paintings, Abstract Art, Digital Art
ATTRIBUTES
Design Skills
AutoCAD, Sketch up
Soft Skills
Leadership, Team work, Adaptability, Digital Literacy
Language Proficiency
English, Bangla
REFERENCE
Dr. Nabeel Mohammed
Assistant Professor
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
North South University
Email: nabeel.mohammed@northsouth.edu
Ms. Tanjila Farah
Senior Lecturer
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering
North South University
Email: tanjila.farah@northsouth.edu